[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello, my delicious
co-creators Lilou here.
I'm on the road this time near
Santa Barbara with you, Gary.
Thank you so much.
And we have our friend here.
>> Gary Douglas: [foreign name]
his real name was [foreign
name], which means undesirable.
And it's like that
doesn't fit him
because he is the most
desirable horse I've ever had
in my entire life.
I've been riding
since I was two.
I'm 70. And so it's like
this horse does everything
that I ever wanted
in a horse he has.
Besides the fact
that he's pretty.
>> Lilou: He is so
beautiful a real Pegasus.
I'm excited to do this
interview with you, Gary,
because you're known
for being the founder
of Access Consciousness.
You're also a bestselling
author.
And I'm thrilled to have
these open possibilities --
infinite possibilities
conversation, right?
>> Gary Douglas:
Cool absolutely.
>> Lilou: So tell us how can
we live from that living,
this infinite beautiful life.
>> Gary Douglas: Well, the first
step as far as I'm concerned is
to realize that your life is
supposed to be a celebration.
And if you aren't
celebrating your life,
why the heck are you alive?
You know, it's like
you're just wasting air
that other people could use.
You know, it's like life
should be a celebration.
It should be a joy.
I have this friend
who lived with us
for a while her name was Mary.
And she was 96 years old.
She died when she was 97 or 98.
I forget. And she
was living with us.
And she asked for Christmas
she wanted a pair of 600 count,
you know, sateen sheets.
And I went, okay.
So I got them for her.
And she's, oh, these
are so lovely.
I'll keep them for
a special occasion.
And I said, Mary, if you wake
up in the morning it's
a special occasion.
And I haven't seen
anybody sneaking
into your room at night.
So let's just use
the darn things,
will you because
this is ridiculous.
And, you know, your life
should be a celebration.
Why do you save your
best stuff until later?
Why do you save -- have your
best china and your, you know,
your best silver,
and your best stuff
that you don't use every day.
I use my best china every day.
I use my best silver every day.
I use my best crystal every day.
I use everything every day.
Because, you know, I
could be dead tomorrow.
And it's like today needs to
be the best day of my life.
And if it isn't, why
the heck am I alive?
>> Lilou: You love horses
obviously, and here we're
in your beautiful ranch
with very special horses.
Though you had an
accident with a horse,
and you had all those
challenges.
And this is part of --
>> G.D.: Yeah, but it's like,
you know, you have an accident
with a horse is like,
okay, fine.
It doesn't mean anything.
It's like, okay, that's
part of what we do.
It's, you know, it's like
for most of us it's how most
of us learn is with
the accidents.
You know, it's like -- and
it's like for me I realized
like this finger, okay?
I broke it because I was riding
a horse that went up to a fence.
It was a brick wall,
and he stopped.
And then he decided to
jump it after he stopped.
But I wasn't willing to
be aware enough to realize
that he was going to do that.
And when I got aware enough
is when I realized, hey,
there's a different
possibility here.
And I started riding
from awareness.
And using awareness
as the source
of what I rode and how I rode.
And as a result, a whole
different universe opened up.
And it's like when you ride from
awareness when you do your life
from awareness, everything
gets better.
>> Lilou: So what is awareness?
How do you define awareness?
>> G.D.: Well awareness is
the knowing that you know.
And it's like one of the
things that always cracks me
up is people will go, you know,
it's like I knew I shouldn't go
out with this person, but I
went out with them anyway.
I said so why did
you go out with them?
Well, because I thought it
would turn out this way.
Or I thought it would do this.
But it's like the reality
was they knew it wasn't going
to work.
But instead of going, okay,
it's not going to work.
They went how do I make
this work, you know?
And it's, like -- okay,
no, you can't eat her hair.
.
>> Lilou: I love it [inaudible].
>> G.D. He can't no.
It's okay.
But it's like literally, it's
like when you are with somebody
and you realize that
you're not --
you shouldn't be doing
this stop yourself.
But I think most people if
they go back to their lives,
they'll be able to
see those places
where they knew they
shouldn't do something.
And they did it anyway.
And it's like and it turned
out exactly the way they
knew it would turn out.
Well, that's because you know.
But it's like everybody
acts like I don't know.
I mean, I hear more
people say I don't know
than any other phrase
I hear ever.
And it's, like, I
go that's a lie.
You do know.
So what do you know
you don't want to know?
It's just amazing
to me because it's
like people go, I don't know.
I go, you're infinite being,
how could you not know?
[sound effects].
They don't have an
answer for that.
>> Lilou: You're talking about
intuition then or instinct.
What are we
>> G.D.: It's more
than intuition.
It's more than instinct.
Intuition is where
you know something --
you know something's
not going to work
or something's wrong
or something's bad.
But you don't know how or why.
But I'm talking about that place
where you know you shouldn't do
something, and you do it anyway.
Thinking, well, I'll
get away with it.
Or it'll work out.
Or it can't be that
bad or whatever.
You come to all these
conclusions instead
the question.
And it's like if people started
to function from the question,
life would get easier.
>> Lilou: In life there's so
many possibilities that come
to us so many choices to make.
And we go certain paths.
So how do we choose really?
How do we shift to the
best possibilities?
>> G.D.: The best way to do it
is every time you have a choice
to make you go, okay,
if I choose this what will my
life be like in five years?
If I don't choose it, what will
my life be like in five years?
And when you start to
function from that,
you start to notice a certain
kind of energy that comes
up which is more expansive.
You can see the possibilities.
You can feel the possibilities
when you ask what
will my life be
like in five years
if I choose this.
And you start to function
from that awareness.
And it's like the world
just gives you one gift
after the other.
Yeah, thanks.
See, he agrees.
So it's like it's really
that wondrous possibility
that we could live from.
You know, it's like from
our perspective it's
like you have a choice in life.
You can ask a question.
And the purpose of a question is
to gain awareness not an answer.
And if you start doing
question from possibilities
and from the awareness
you can get, then you end
up with multiple choices.
And if you ask on each
choice what will my life be
like if I choose this in five
years, and it's like you start
to create more possibilities.
And eventually you notice
that the choices you make
like interweave with different
possibilities to create this,
you know, the lineage
of your life.
The way it's going to work.
The way you're going to get
the things you really want.
And then, you know, the reality
is when you ask a question
and you make a choice and
you create a possibility,
the quantum entanglements
of the entire universe
do everything they can
to contribute to you.
>> Lilou: I love that word
quantum entanglements.
>> G.D.: Quantum
entanglement is how --
it's the strength theory
that everything is
interconnected, which it is.
And it's like you ask,
and you shall receive.
It's like you, you know, you ask
for something you ever
notice how often you get it?
And yet you go how
did that happen?
Because you were stupid enough
to ask [brief laughter].
You know.
>> Lilou: You've created --
you founded 25 years
ago Access Conscious.
How did this happen?
>> G.D.: Well, first I
started out I was channeling.
And I was, you know, I
thought that was my calling.
>> Lilou: You were
in real estate.
>> G.D.: I was in real
estate before I'd started
the channeling.
Then I started channeling,
and I thought, oh,
that'll be perfect then I can
just close my eyes and say stuff
and people will pay me money.
Well, I got so bored with it.
People would come and say, okay,
so will my next half
have [inaudible].
Who cares?
Will my boy -- my next
boyfriend have blue eyes?
Who cares?
Why don't you freaking go out
and create your life,
you stupid cow?
And it's, like -- and
I said you know what?
If I can't get somebody in here
who wants something greater
than a new boyfriend or
a new house, I don't want
to do this ever again.
And for six months I had
no channelings [phonetic].
And then I had somebody
who came,
and they started
asking questions.
And that was when the stuff
about access began to show up.
And it's like --
but they were asking
about how to get more aware.
How to get more consciousness.
How to create more
possibilities in life.
How to create something
that would be greater
than what they currently have.
And that was the kind of people
that I wanted to deal with.
And so I did the first
few classes, you know,
with my eyes shut
and channeling it.
And then all of a sudden --
>> Lilou: How [inaudible]
technology showed up.
>> G.D.: It showed up, yeah.
And then all of a sudden
one day they went away,
and they said you're on your
own get to work [yelling].
You know, and it
was like [yelling].
You know, but the good news
is that the worst person
who ever came to access who
couldn't tell the difference
between body heat
and energy was me.
I couldn't tell the difference
between body heat and energy.
And it was like everybody
else would, you know,
do this I see the
blah, blah blah.
And this is -- and I go, okay.
But what it did is it
required me to ask a question.
Okay, how does this feel to you?
And I'd be doing the bars.
And I'd say how does
this feel to you?
And they go if you pull
any harder, you're going
to suck me right out of my body.
Okay, cool.
And I go down the feet.
And I'd stand there
and, you know,
have no clue what was happening.
And I go, okay, how
does this feel to you?
And they'd go if you pull
any harder, you're going
to pull me out of my body.
Okay. And then I'd go
to the next position.
And that's how I started.
Because it's like literally
for the first three
months I did this stuff.
I literally could
not feel anything.
I had no awareness
of what was going on.
And I thought, you know
what [sound effect].
How come I can't do this?
You know, and it's like --
and I had the most
amazing experiences.
And slowly but surely
I begin to trust
that I was doing something.
There was one lady
who came to me,
and she did a session with me.
And it's like about
the fourth session.
I thought nothing has
happened with this woman.
I'm just stealing her money.
I'm a charlatan.
I'm a terrible person.
I can't do this.
So that day she came
in and I said, okay,
so what do you want to do today?
She said well, the
first thing I want
to do is tell you something.
And I said, okay, what's that?
The first time I came to
you I've had terrible pain
in my feet for the
last 15 years.
And it's like --
and I'm a therapist.
And so I sit down and I, you
know, I roll around on my stool.
And then when I get
up, I can barely walk
for the first five
minutes it hurts so bad.
After the first session,
the pain all went away.
I said it did?
She said, yeah.
I didn't tell you earlier
because I thought
it might come back.
But after the third session
and it hasn't come back.
So I don't think it's
ever going to come back.
And I went, all right.
But it's like those are the
kind of validations I got
from what I was doing.
People wouldn't tell
me up front.
They'd wait for it to come back.
They'd try to find out if
it was going to come back.
the pain still existed.
And it's like -- and
that's when I learned
that most people are
not willing to give
up their pain and suffering.
And it's like, wow.
Why would pain and
suffering be more real to us
and more valuable to us than the
joy of our bodies and our lives
and our, you know, our
infinite being and our choices?
And the ability to ride a
horse like this, you know?
These things are great.
And this is -- we
all have this place
where life should
be a celebration,
and we're not celebrating.
We're acting like
it's a bad party.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
So how did you define Access
Consciousness, though?
Because I hear energy.
I hear --
>> G.D.: Okay, so access is a
set of tools and techniques.
It's the weirdest,
wildest, wackiest,
thing you'll ever
do, and it works.
How's that?
That's my explanation of it.
>> Lilou: Because there's also
questions and practical aspect
to hear you speak of body and of
energies so how is that related?
How do you see first of all
human beings on this planet?
What are we here for?
What is the nature of reality?
>> G.D.: Okay.
So first of all, I'd like to say
that people say what's
the purpose of my life?
And I go to have fun.
And they go what?
I said, yeah, the purpose
of your life is to have fun?
I mean the birds don't
get up in the morning
and go I'm having
a bad feather day.
I'm not going to
sing for you all.
They get up in the morning and
go tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet,
and they have a good time.
The horses get up and they
go, wow, what can we do today?
Let's run.
Let's kick.
Let's play, you know?
The cows go, oh, we'll chew our
cuds until somebody comes along
and has us for hamburger.
You know, it's like they
don't have this point of view
that there's a bad anything.
The judgment of bad is
something we do to ourselves,
and it's such a wrongness.
You know we make ourselves
wrong for all the wrong things.
What we should do is be happy.
You know, it's like
and if the joy
of your life is your target
then your life expands.
If getting rid of your
misery is your target,
you get more misery.
Because what you focus
on is what you get.
>> Lilou: So how
do you define this?
How do you [horse
sounds] I hear you.
[horse sounds].
>> G.D.: Hey, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, settle down.
Stop it. Listen to me.
Come here.
Be quiet. Be calm.
Come on you're not going
to get a mare right now.
It's breeding season.
So he thinks he should
be out there doing it.
>> Lilou: Yeah, he
wants to have fun too.
He wants to play.
>> G.D.: He wants to have fun.
>> Lilou: That's his thing.
>> Gary Douglas:
Yeah, that's his --
he wants to play with his thing.
Right. [brief laughter] yeah.
It's like he has a point of view
that his job is to make babies.
I know. And it's like and --
>> Lilou: Good wrong just it is.
>> G.D.: It's just
his job, yeah.
And he has no point
of view about it.
It's like, okay, can
I make a baby now?
Not, I don't get to make a baby?
Not, what's wrong with me that
I don't get to make a baby?
And it's like, okay,
when can I make a baby?
He's always in question.
And that's a different
way to function.
It's like -- and people don't
realize that just by functioning
from that question, okay, so
what's really possible today?
What could I be or
do different today
that would change my
life totally right away?
And that's the question I ask
people and ask all the time.
What can I be or
do different today?
Not differently.
Because differently is trying
to take something you're already
doing that isn't working well.
And tweaking it so
it works better.
No, it's like what can
you be or do different?
It will create a
totally different realty.
If you start to function from
what you can be or do different,
you start to open the doors
to all the possibilities
that exist throughout
the entire universe.
And, you know, it's
like unfortunately been
in training to this realty.
And it's like this reality is
about, you know, work hard.
Have 2.5 children, a white
picket fence, 2.4 cars,
and a dog and live
in the suburbs.
And live happily ever after.
Except how many people have
you met are actually happy
with that?
No. It's like they don't end
up being happy with that.
They end up feeling like
somehow their life is stifled.
It's like they know there's
got to be something greater.
And I knew as a kid there
had to be something greater.
When I was a little
kid they used to ask me
so what do you want to
be when you grow up, son?
I go, I want to be happy.
And they go, no, son, what do
you want to be when you grow up?
Happy. No, son, do you
want to be a doctor,
a lawyer, or Indian chief?
Any of those as long
as I'm happy.
You know, and it's like -- and
it was always about happiness
for me and the joy of it.
Because somewhere
in my universe,
I just knew that happiness
was the greatest gift
that we have on planet earth.
And the one thing we don't do.
And one of the things
that's interesting is
like I keep trying to
tell people, you know,
if you actually live in the
question, make your choices,
have the possibility,
and request of the quantum
entanglements to help you.
And you laugh a lot
you heal the planet.
Everybody's trying to
save the freaking planet.
It's like I don't want
to save the whales,
I want to go educate them.
When you hear this noise run.
It's like, I'm sorry, were
out trying to save the whales.
Why aren't we educating
the whales
on when you hear
these guys coming,
when you feel this
energy, get lost?
You know, disappear
because they can do it.
But they don't know
they can do it.
And they don't have a point
of view about being harpooned.
Their point of view
is live in the sea.
We have a good time.
And when we stop, we stop.
Death doesn't mean
anything to them.
Death is a very meaningful
thing to us.
>> Lilou: So how do you remove
all of those layers and layers
of beingness [phonetic]
of being a certain way
or thinking a certain way
and this voice and this sound
that just goes on and
on and on like a tape?
>> G.D.: Yeah, it is a tape.
Is what it really is.
[inaudible] heard some of
those people who talk to you,
and it's like you know this
is tape number 255 heard
that story 800 times.
Okay, it's tape number 452, and
we've heard that story 27 times.
It's like most people live their
lives from this tape library
that they think equals
something.
And the one thing that
I've developed in access,
that we've developed in access,
is these tools and techniques
that are ways to
unlock that place
where you've decided something
is so that actually isn't.
Because like what we think is
so, isn't actually correct.
And it's like what
we're taught here --
you know it's like you're
taught when you're a little kid.
Don't touch that thing.
Then now that you're 18, you're
supposed to touch that thing.
And it's like [sound effects].
You know it's like you're
just -- you're confused.
And it's like we are
taught so many things
about what we're not
supposed to be or do or have
or create or generate.
Ah, ah, don't you eat that.
Don't eat it.
No, don't do that.
Be good. You're not
allowed to eat it, okay?
Thank you.
No don't eat.
Don't eat.
Okay, thank you.
So -- gotcha [brief laughter].
So it's like if we
started to look at --
okay, so what's really
true for us?
And most of us never
ask that question.
You know, it's like -- and it's
like in access we say
there's two kinds of people
in the world the humans
and the humanoids.
The humans always make you
wrong for everything you do.
And tell you how you can't
do it, and you won't do it,
and you shouldn't do it.
And the humanoids are
always the ones that go
if we did this it would
be so much better.
And it's like and
can't we do this?
And humanoids are always
the ones that take a job,
and it's like within three days
to three weeks they
know everything.
And they want to change
it to make it better.
Humans always go, no,
you can't do that.
We've always done it this way.
We'll always do it this way.
This is just the way it's done.
Don't do that.
And you go, but -- and they go,
don't give me your buts just
do it the way I tell you.
And it's like they don't
want to change things.
And it's like they want
to change their underwear,
and that's about all
they want to change.
Other than that, they are
not going to change anything.
And so it's like with the
humanoids they've created all
the great art, all
the great literature.
You know, it's like the
people who do the kind
of stuff you're doing.
You got to be a humanoid.
You wouldn't ask questions.
You can't be a humanoid
and do something unique.
You can't be a humanoid and
create a different realty.
If you're, you know, it's like
if you're human, you have no --
you know, it's like you don't
want to change anything.
If you're a humanoid you
have to change everything.
And you're always
looking for more.
And it's like if you've
always had the point of view
that there ought to be
more there should be more,
than you're a humanoid.
It's like it's not a wrongness,
it's just a difference.
But you're the kind of person
that will go try things
and go do something different.
And search the world
for a greater answer,
a greater possibility.
Where the humans will go,
well, that's a waste of time.
You know it's like -- I was
working on a lady that's
in my family a few years ago.
And I worked on her.
And she goes, well, that was
a glorious waste of time.
Okay, cool.
And it's like and she doesn't
ask me a question ever.
We talk on the phone
about once a month.
But she never asks me a
question about me, my life,
my horses, or anything.
She tells me about her,
her friends who are dying
and her horses and
her dogs and cats.
But never asks a thing about me.
She has no interest.
>> Lilou: How do you deal
with the humans then?
>> G.D.: You just recognize that
with a human you got to ask them
to do certain things for you.
Because humans are really
good at doing certain things.
They can do the same thing
over again a thousand times
and not change anything with it.
You, as a humanoid, always
have to change everything.
Ever notice, I mean,
you put on a dress.
You don't wear the same shoes,
the same hat, the same anything.
You got to have something
different.
Okay, well, these earrings will
look really good with this.
Or, oh, I'll wear these
shoes that'll make it look
so different.
You know because that's
the way you function
when you're a humanoid.
You're always wanting to
have something different
and change something.
And you're never happy
with doing it the same way.
But the humans, they'll wear
the same dress with the same,
you know, the same outfits,
the same clothes
over and over again.
And it's just amazing to
me to watch them do it
because I've seen
them again, and again.
They come into the office, and
they've got on the same outfit
that they had two weeks ago
with exactly the same earrings,
exactly the same shoes,
exactly the same purse.
And it's like everything's
exactly the same.
But they don't see any reason
to do anything different.
For them, it's about
sameness is the best.
>> Lilou: So humans can
transform into humanoids?
>> G.D.: No, they can't.
You know, it's like --
>> Lilou: No awakening possible?
>> G.D.: No.
>> Lilou: Ever?
>> G.D.: Ever.
You know it's like you
wouldn't expect a monkey
to become a guerilla would you?
Why would you expect a
human to become a humanoid?
You know, it's like
they're, you know,
it's like the monkey's
an infinite thing,
the guerilla's an
infinite being.
But they ain't going to
take those other bodies.
And it's like, you know,
it's like in only humans
will actually choose to take
on a different body form.
You know, it's like, you know,
monkeys would never
bother to be a human.
You guys are stupid.
You got to work and
all that stuff instead
of having some fool feed you.
You know, it's like they
don't work that hard.
>> Lilou: So there's
no possibilities
of transformation though you
bring abscess consciousness
so I'm sure --
>> G.D.: There's
great possibilities --
>> Lilou: Would you say
that you only attract them
in Access Consciousness
[inaudible].
>> G.D.: It used to be
only humanoids came.
Now humans are starting
to show up.
But the humanoids are
starting to value the fact
that they're different.
And that's the gift that
recognizing your difference
and not making it wrong is.
When you're willing to be
the difference you are,
it's like then you no
longer make yourself wrong
for being different.
You go, okay, I'm
just different.
Not wrong, just different.
And what's happening
is a whole lot
of humans are showing
up to access now.
And they're getting results,
and they're changing too.
So it's like, will they
ever become humanoids?
I doubt it because they have
a tendency to sit in judgment.
And then, you know,
it's like the thing
about humans is they
will always judge you
as if you just didn't do that
everything would be fine.
Humanoids are going, oh, my
god, I'm such a terrible person.
I'm so judgmental.
If you think you're judgmental,
you are 99 percent
chance humanoid.
Humans never assume
that they're judgmental.
They always assume their right.
>> Lilou: And so the purpose of
being a humanoid on the planet,
what does that come with?
>> G.D.: It's like not so much
that there's a purpose to it,
it's a recognition
you need to have
that you don't function
like other people.
Then you won't make
yourself wrong
for not functioning
the way they do.
You'll look at how what you
do can be a valuable product.
And how to create your life
from that valuable product.
It's like one of the things that
access has done is allowed a lot
of the people who always thought
themselves wrong have learned
that they're not wrong,
they're different.
And now they've learned
how to use that difference
to make a lot of money.
It's working.
You know because
most of us, you know,
it's like I was taught
you have to work hard.
You save your money, and
then some day you'll be able
to retire.
And I went what?
First of all, I didn't
like working hard
unless I was enjoying it.
Second of all, saving my
money seemed just pointless.
And third of all,
retire to do what?
Sit in my driveway and judge
the neighbors like, you know,
all my neighbors were
doing that were retired?
They would sit in their
driveways in their garages
and judge everybody
else who drove by.
I'm going, this is what you
want to do with your life
at the end of your life?
So retirement is
valuable based on what?
I don't ever plan on retiring.
It's like when I retire, it'll
because I'm six feet under.
>> Lilou: What are
some of those questions
that deepen the experience
of life?
>> G.D.: Well, you
know, it's like one
of the questions I
always ask people.
Just ask how does it get
any better than this?
And I had a lady who came to
one of my classes in New York,
and she walked outside the
door and she found a dime.
And she goes, oh, how does
it get any better than this?
And she's walking down to
the subway in New York,
and she found a $10 bill.
And she goes, wow,
flag down a cab,
and said how's it get
any better than this?
She was driven to her
destination right in front
of her apartment building.
And as she opened
the door to get out,
she saw something
sparkling down in the gutter.
And she picked it up, and
it was a diamond bracelet.
She went from dimes to
diamonds with three questions.
And then she went, ah, can't
get any better than this,
and that ended it all.
If she kept asking does it
get any better than this,
she might have had
something even greater
than just a diamond bracelet.
You never can tell.
>> Lilou: How does that
play in changing the world?
>> G.D.: Well, the thing is
that when you are in question
of things, you don't
come to the conclusions
that make things
stop and not work.
So a conclusion, a
judgment, a decision,
a computation are always
things that are judgments
that stop the world,
detract the world.
And it's like when you ask a
question, you open the doors
to other possibilities.
I went to the airport one time
and I asked for, you know,
I said I've got seats on
this plane at this time.
And the guy goes I don't
have you in here, sir.
I said but here,
here's the ticket.
So he looked at it
and goes, sir,
you're plane trip
is for tomorrow.
I went, oh, Jesus.
How does it get any
better than this?
I said can you do anything
for me [horse sounds] stop,
stop, stop, stop, stop.
Can you do anything for me?
[horse sounds] Stop.
It's a gelding.
It's not a mare.
Just because she's yelling,
doesn't mean she can
do anything for you.
So it's -- anyway, so
it's like, you know,
it's like it was very funny.
At any rate, ouch,
that was not nice.
So anyway, it's like I ask him
can you do anything for me?
And he goes, well,
let me see here.
You know it's going to cost
you $75 to change this ticket.
And I said, okay, that's fine.
It's like -- that's less
expensive than the embarrassment
of calling my friend up and
going back to his house to stay
because I thought
I had it all right.
And it's like it's very
embarrassing to stay
at somebody's house and then
when you leave you
have to come back.
I don't think that's good.
So I said I'll pay it.
And he goes, okay, fine.
And then he goes [sound effect].
And he goes you know
what, here it's on me.
Here you go.
And I got on the plane, and it
didn't cost me anything extra.
And just from asking the
question how does it get any
better than this.
And a lady who went to Paris,
and she had no hotel
reservations.
And she walked in, and she says
can I get a room for the night?
And the receptionist says,
oh, we are fully booked, lady.
And she goes, well, how does
it get any better than that?
And the woman looked
at her confused.
And she goes one moment.
And she goes in the back room
and the manager comes out
and says, madam, we
are fully booked.
And she goes, well, how does
it get any better than that?
Well, we do have
the penthouse suite,
which is normally this amount.
But we'll give it to you
at our regular rate
since nobody's there.
How long -- you know,
it's like as long
as you don't stay
more than two days.
And she goes no problem.
And so she got a penthouse
suite for the same price
as a regular room in a
hotel that was fully booked.
How does it get any
better than that?
But those kind of questions, if
you ask those kind of questions,
the universe takes care of you.
It looks at, okay, so
what might be possible.
And will rearrange things
so you get a better choice,
a better possibility.
And it's bizarre, but it works.
>> Lilou: And for
changing the world?
>> G.D.: For changing
the world, laugh.
The more laughter, the more
joy you bring into the world,
the more you change the world
to a better place to live.
You know, it's like happiness is
the greatest gift you can give
the planet.
And it's like if people will
function from the happiness
and the joy they have and the
possibilities that get created
from that, everything
begins to work.
You know, it's like
I never get bummed.
Well, I do get bummed
occasionally, you know,
but it's usually about --
like I have about a ten
minute bad hair day.
You know, and that's about it.
And it's like there was a point
at which I was like, oh, my god,
what's wrong with my money?
I don't have enough
money in the bank.
And I go something's wrong.
And I went -- nice yawn.
I went, okay, so who do I need
to call to find out about this?
And I thought of three people.
And I called those three people.
No. I called the three people.
And within 20 minutes I found
out that this credit card
company had been keeping $61,000
of my money without telling me.
And I went -- I knew
something was not right.
But it's like literally
it's [inaudible].
And it's like when you start
to function from that level
of awareness and when you know
something's funky you start
asking questions, instead
of going I feel like crap.
If you go I feel like crap,
guess what you get to do?
Feel like crap.
But if you're not feeling --
if things are not
feeling quite right, okay,
what is it I need here?
And it's like one of the
things I teach people is
that if you're confused,
always ask what information do
I need that I'm not getting.
Because literally, the only
time you're confused is
when you lack information.
Don't bite me either.
Not me, not the bench.
>> Lilou: Money conversation
a big one for a lot of us.
How do you view money
or how do you --
because there's a big
conversation around the crisis
or on the financial -- like
how can I do really my dreams
if I can't handle
the regular stuff?
>> G.D.: Well, the thing is it's
like you got to realize, okay,
so what would it take for
-- what would I have to be
or do different today that would
create more money right away?
And use that question.
And it's amazing how
much it changes things.
And for me, the one thing I
realized is money's the gasoline
that makes your car go.
It's not your life.
And it's not the be all end all.
And I met lots of people who
have serious amounts of money,
but they're not happy.
And then I've met a few
people that are happy,
and they don't have a lot
of money, but they're happy.
I go, okay, so what's
the difference?
And they always manage
to pay all their bills,
even those still due bills.
And I noticed that if you --
you know, it's like if you --
the other thing you want to do
is make sure you pay you first.
One of the things I noticed
is people have a tendency
to pay their bills
first and them last.
So one of the things I
tell people put 10 percent
of every dollar that comes
into your life put it away.
Put it away and never spend it.
And with most people
within six months,
their whole financial
situation is turned around.
And it's amazing a
simple thing like that.
You know, but it's sort of like
tithing to the church of you.
And realizing that you're the
valuable product in your life
and letting that occur.
And you start functioning
from that,
and a whole different
universe opens up for you.
And money starts to flow in your
life in ways you never thought.
And each one of us has a
certain amount of money
that once we hit
that, we think --
at that point we
feel we have money.
And then money just starts
to flow in our lives.
It's like when you think,
oh, my god, I have no money,
let's see what are you
telling the universe with that?
You have no money.
So guess what?
That's what you get, no money.
You know, it's like
I was talking
with a lady the other day.
And I said so what
are you asking for?
She said more money.
And I said, well, that's not
going to get you anything.
You want more paying clients.
She goes what?
I said are you asking
the universe
for more paying clients.
I said ask the universe.
Okay, universe, what would it
take for ten new paying clients
to show up in my life this week?
And she went, but
that's too easy.
And I said that's the problem.
You think that money that
comes easy is somehow wrong.
No, money that comes
anyway is fine.
You know, people don't get
that they don't invite money.
You know, it's like if you were
having a party and you said,
come over to my party.
We're not going to sing.
We're not going to dance.
We're not going to
have any music.
And we're not going to have
any food, but we'll try
to have some fun maybe.
Would you go?
No. Well, money's the same way.
Money goes to the
party of happiness.
>> Lilou: So when
there's no lack
and when there is
just the gratitude
of what's already
there or it's --
I think your taking
it a step further.
>> G.D.: Yeah, this is a
step further because it's not
about the gratitude
for what's there.
It's a recognition that as
you ask, so shall you receive.
So if you are going
I have no money,
then that's what going
to show up, no money.
If you go, wow, I'm getting
rich and richer every day.
And what would it take
for that to show up?
And live in that question
of what am I going to have
to be or do different?
I ask every day, what do I have
to be or do different today
to create a whole lot
more money right away?
And weird things happen.
Like recently my secretary said
you've got to join Medicare.
I said I'm not going
to ever use it.
It's like I don't believe in
regular doctors number one.
But I'm not going
to use Medicare.
It's like why do
I have to do it?
Because you're insurance
company's going
to cancel you if you don't.
Okay, fine.
So she made an online
thing for me.
A guy calls me and he, you know,
he wants me to tell
him something.
Okay, fine, yep, yep,
yep, that, that, that.
He says and have you signed
up for social security,
and I said no.
I make too much money.
I'll just -- you know, it's
like I'm already
paying taxes who cares?
And he goes, well, it's like
the realty is - you're right now
at your particular thing your
scheduled for $1,600 a month.
And I can back date
that for six months
which means you'll get $16,000.
Nice. Say what?
Okay. I'll take it.
But it's like I was
not looking at Medicare
because I know I'm
not going to use it.
I was not looking
at social security
because I'm making
lots of money.
So those things weren't
a necessity
for me so I didn't bother.
But when he started asking the
questions then he told me I was
going to get $16,000.
I can use $16,000 thanks.
But I'd been asking
what would it take
for a whole lot more
money to show
up in my life two days before.
And the day before.
And that day.
And I got a call.
And it's like, okay,
thank you universe
for showing me how it works.
>> Lilou: And even though --
even a bad situation
can be transformed
so everything is useful.
Basically everything that comes
to us there's a good
reason for that.
Let's deepen that experience
or let's open that experience.
>> G.D.: Open the door to
different possibilities.
See one of the things that
I do is I always ask, okay,
so how does it get
any better than this?
And it's like with the
question how's it get any better
than this all kinds of
amazing things show up.
So like I was in New
York, and I was trying
to get a rent control apartment.
And I kept going,
okay, so I'm going
to get this rent
control apartment.
And I kept going -- I kept
trying to find this place,
and I couldn't find it, okay?
And this time I didn't ask
how does it get any better
than this.
Couldn't find this apartment.
I had to go by it ten times
before I was able to see it.
And I didn't ask what's right
about this I'm not getting.
And I went in, and I
rented the apartment.
And it turned out
to be a disaster
because I didn't
ask what's right
about this I'm not getting.
And I didn't ask what
else is possible here.
And it's like had I done that,
I would never had
gotten into that.
But I had made up my mind.
I decided, I concluded that
that was the right thing.
And it's like after that I
started asking questions.
What's right about
this I'm not getting?
me I'm not getting?
And, you know, it's like
how many times have you said
to yourself, oh,
I'm so wrong here.
What if you're not wrong?
What if what your
choosing is exactly right?
And it's like my passing
this apartment ten times was
exactly right.
But I didn't ask what's right
about this I'm not getting.
Because if I had really
gotten that passing it
up was what I really
needed to do,
I would not have had the
financial disaster I had
as a result of it --
different possibilities.
>> Lilou: Your latest
book are "The Keys
to Freedom," is that right?
>> G.D.: "Ten Keys to
Total Freedom," yeah.
>> Lilou: What was that freedom?
>> G.D.: Well, freedom
is the ability to choose.
And freedom is the
ability to do anything.
And it's like these
keys are things like --
the first one is would
an infinite being truly
choose this?
Are you functioning as infinite
being or a finite being?
How are you functioning in life?
You know, I know a lot
of people who function
like they're some kind of weird
[inaudible] in the universe
that nobody cares about.
Well, it's like what are you
going to create from that?
So you got to get that there's
a whole different universe
that's available.
And we got to ask
those questions.
And we got to look at would
an infinite being truly
choose this.
Would an infinite being
truly be devastated
about a relationship that ends?
No, they'd probably look
around and go, okay,
what else is possible?
And it's like this morning
a man that you met --
it's like he'd just broken
up, and he was all depressed.
You know and I said to him --
I said, okay, so would you let
me do a little processing on you
to make you feel better?
I said so how many
lies did you buy
to make this relationship work?
He goes one.
I said no you didn't.
About a gazillion.
So we just [inaudible].
And he goes okay, yes.
I go okay, everything
[inaudible].
And I said so when did you
realize this relationship wasn't
going to work?
Three months before you got
together or three months after?
He went, oh, three
months before.
So you'd gotten into
it for what reason?
Because she wanted me to commit.
Okay. Is that your best choice?
Don't do that to yourself.
Don't, you know, don't lock
yourself up with those kind
of decisions and choices.
So it's like you got
to look at what is.
You know, and it's like
and then, you know,
everything's just an
interesting point of view.
If you look at your lover's
life as an interesting point
of view whether they're
right or wrong,
then you don't have
to make them wrong.
You don't have to
make them right.
make you wrong.
You don't have to
make you right.
All you do is see and go,
wow, that isn't working.
Why would you choose that?
Would an infinite
being choose that?
Okay, are you having fun?
You know, it's like if
somebody's doing trauma
and drama is it fun for them?
Yeah. I had somebody call me
I'm going to commit suicide.
Good. What kind of
gun you going to use?
I'm not using a gun.
So what are you going
to use poison?
You know, it's like
they go, well, maybe.
I said, well, do you need
some help on figuring
out which ones going to be the
easiest and the less painful?
What? You're not going
to try and stop me?
No. If you want to commit
suicide, I'm all for it.
I hate you.
Okay. Did they commit suicide?
No. They were looking
for sympathy.
I'm sorry, I don't
give sympathy.
>> Lilou: I get that.
So no compassion?
>> G.D.: Compassion
is superiority.
You always have to judge
somebody as less than you
to be compassionate
towards them.
>> Lilou:.
Awesome. The present moment.
A lot of people speak about
being in the present moment.
>> G.D.: Yeah, good luck.
You know, 99 percent of the
people couldn't be present
in their lives if their
life depended on it.
You know it's like, yeah,
it's great to be
present in the moment.
But the only way you're
going to get that is
by practicing something.
Everything is only
good for ten seconds.
If you make every choice
for only ten seconds,
then you can change it.
If you try to make it more
than ten seconds, then you try
to hold on to the
rightness or wrongness of it.
So if you start functioning
in ten second increments you
can be present with everything.
But it's like as long as
you have a point of view
that there's something right or
wrong about what your choosing
or what has to be
chosen, you're dead meat.
>> Lilou: The horses -- I want
to finish with the horses.
What did they teach you,
because you love them obviously?
You have so many
around here and --
>> G.D.: The thing
about horses is they
communicate telepathically.
So what you think
is what you get.
So if you think you're
afraid or if you're angry,
the horse will give you
anger or it'll give you fear.
So it's like you want to
be present with the horse.
And the one thing a horse does
is require you to be present.
You can't checkout
while riding a horse,
otherwise you'll get hurt.
And the other thing about horses
is there's a kindness in them.
They want to take care of us.
You know it's like --
and they're infinite
beings who have chose.
So before I get on a horse,
I say will you take
care of me today?
And the horse goes sure.
You know, because they
know that's their job is
to take care of us.
But people don't ask.
They decide to get on them.
And they kick them, and
they do all this stuff.
I never kick my horse.
I ask of him can we do this?
Can we do this?
And it's like -- and he always
does it because I'm asking.
And that's the other thing.
Horses are a great way to
learn how to be in question.
Because if you function from
question, what they will do
for you will knock
your socks off.
If you don't, you're in trouble.
I watched a lady at this
jumping competition.
And she -- and it's like
before the competition she said
that bicycle jump it's
going to be really bad.
And I thought, that's the
one your horse is going
to refuse on.
Guess what?
The horse refused on it because
she had already decided it
was bad.
So the horse looked at it and
goes what's wrong with this --
you know, it's like the horse
functions from, you know,
what do you want from me.
And it's like -- and
she's going this is bad.
Guess what?
That's the way the horse
is going to see it.
This is bad.
And if the horse sees it as
bad do they want to go over it?
No. So it's like she wondered
why she didn't do well
in the show?
Because she'd already
decided she was going
to do bad by her point of view.
She didn't ask me a question.
I didn't tell her.
And I have learned over time
don't tell people what they
can't hear.
>> Lilou: I really enjoyed
this conversation, Gary.
Thank you so much.
>> G.D.: Thank you this was fun.
Thanks for inviting my
friend to be with us.
>> Lilou: Yes.
You were lovely [inaudible
comment].
[Background Music] Much, much
love my delicious co-creators.
Bye.